website: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/mallorn-astronomical-classification-challenge/data

Dataset Description
File Descriptions
Split [01-20] : The repository for that respective split of the MALLORN data set. Each are roughly equal in size.
[train/test]_full_lightcurves.csv : Time series observations of objects in each respective filter. Multiple objects are saved to the one csv file, and can be extracted using the object_id. Contains the full lightcurves for the objects.
[train/test]_log.csv : Additional information about the objects such as the extinction and redshift of the objects. This also includes the SpecType(true classification of the object) and target (binary variable for TDE and non-TDE). Further the split column in the log files can be used to identify the respective split folder for a given object_id.
sample_submission.csv : A valid submisison file.
The Using_the_Data notebook provides an overview of loading in the lightcurve for a chosen object.

Log File Column Descriptions
object_id : A combination of 3 Sindarin (Elvish) words which provides a unique identifier for each object.
Z : The redshift of the object. For the training data these are spectroscopic redshift values, which have negligible error. For the testing set these are simulated photometric redshift values which do have a corresponding error.
Z_err : The error in the redshift. This value is left blank for the training data for the reasons described above.
EBV : The extinction coefficient (E(B-V)) value. This provides a measure for the amount the light of the source has been obscured by dust on its path to reach us. This value can be used to de-extinct the flux measurements through a method shown in the ‘Using_the_Data’ notebook.
SpecType : The spectroscopically defined type of the object. This value is given in the training data to allow for effective training of classifiers. However, it is left blank for the testing data.
English Translation : An English translation of the Object_ID. Unimportant for the classifier challenge but a fun inclusion.
split : The name of the split folder that contains the the full lightcurve file for a given object.
target (only for training set): The target variable for TDE classification (derived from SpecType). The value is 1 if the source is a TDE and 0 if anything else.
Data File Column Descriptions
object_id : Same as described above.
Time (MJD) : The date of the observation. In units of MJD (Modified Julian Date) which are commonly used in astronomy. The number indicates the number of days since 17/11/1858.
Flux : The measured amount of light from the observation. Given in units of microjansky (μJy). These values are unextincted and need to be corrected for that using the ‘EBV’ value for the corresponding object from the relevant log file.
Flux_err : The uncertainty in the flux measurement described above.
Filter : The observation filter used for that respective observation. LSST will use six different filters: u, g, r, i, z & y. The filter corresponds to a particular wavelength range. The time series data for each filter should be regarded separately as they can behave differently for a given type of object.
Additional Information
Gaps in observations: Due to the nature of LSST’s cadence there will be gaps between observations for a respective band. The frequency of observations are also effected by the position of the Sun and simulated weather – both of which can result in larger gaps between observations. As a result, the overall quality of the lightcurves can vary. However, measures have been taken to ensure the overall quality of the lightcurves included within this classification challenge.

Nuclear extragalactic objects: All of the simulated transients included in this data set were produced from real observations of nuclear transients by ZTF. Therefore all of the simulated objects are regarded as nuclear transients. There is no additional contextual information provided with the position of the transient. There are no galactic transients included within the MALLORN data set as it is assumed that astronomers will be able to filter out those objects.

Types included: The following types of extragalactic transient are included in the MALLORN data set: SN Ia, SN Ia-91T-like, SN Ia-91bg-like, SN Ia02cx-like, SN Ia-pec, SN Ib, SN Ib/c, SN Ic, SN Ic-BL, SN II, SN IIb, SN IIn, SLSN-I, SLSN-II, TDEs & AGN.

Negative flux measurements: All of the flux measurements are taken with respect to a baseline value for that sky position. This can therefore result in negative flux values if the flux varies below that baseline value. These are particularly prevalent for AGN.